In this section, we are going to learn about
access list, what is access list?
Access list is a policy to accept or block
any packet in the network.
We are going to learn about access list with
an example case.
Let’s create the topology first.
Let’s import 2 router, change the name,
this is router 1 and this is router 2.
And then let’s also import switch, let’s
change the name, this is switch 1
and this is switch 2.
Connecting router 1 to switch 1, router 2 to
switch 2, and router 1 to router 2.
Now let’s also import some pc, let’s say
here we need 6 pc, this will be separated to 3 vlans.
And let’s also import 3 server.
Let’s connecting switch 1 to all pc, and
then connecting switch 2 to all server.
Here we will create 3 vlan for pc. This is
vlan 10, this is vlan 20, and this is vlan 30.
For the server, we will don’t configure
a vlan.
For the ip addressing, vlan 10 will use 192.168.10.0/24,
vlan 20 will use 192.168.20.0/24,
and vlan 30 will use 192.168.30.0/24.
For the server, let’s say we will use 192.168.1.0/24.
For the interface between routers, here will
be 10.10.10.1/30,
and in the router 2 will be 10.10.10.2/30.
So this is topology that we are going to use
to learn about access list.
This is a task for you, try to configure this
topology, the goal is all pc will able to
communicate with servers.
I will show you the solution in the next video,
but before you watch the solution,
make sure that you try it first.
Okay I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.